README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/Infisical/infisical">
        <img width="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Infisical/infisical-node/main/img/logoname-white.svg#gh-dark-mode-only" alt="infisical">
    </a>
</h1>
<p align="center">
  <p align="center">Open-source, end-to-end encrypted tool to manage secrets and configs across your team and infrastructure.</p>
</p>

# Table of Contents

- [Links](#links)
- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Secrets](#working-with-secrets)
  - [Get Secrets](#get-secrets)
  - [Get Secret](#get-secret)
  - [Create Secret](#create-secret)
  - [Update Secret](#update-secret)
  - [Delete Secret](#delete-secret)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
  - [Create Symmetric Key](#create-symmetric-key)
  - [Encrypt Symmetric](#encrypt-symmetric)
  - [Decrypt Symmetric](#decrypt-symmetric)

# Links

- [Infisical](https://github.com/Infisical/infisical)

# Basic Usage

```py
from flask import Flask
from infisical import InfisicalClient

app = Flask(__name__)

client = InfisicalClient(token="your_infisical_token")

@app.route("/")
def hello_world():
    # access value
    name = client.get_secret("NAME", environment="dev", path="/")
    return f"Hello! My name is: {name.secret_value}"
```

This example demonstrates how to use the Infisical Python SDK with a Flask application. The application retrieves a secret named "NAME" and responds to requests with a greeting that includes the secret value.

It is also possible to use the SDK to encrypt/decrypt text; the implementation uses `aes-256-gcm` with components of the encryption/decryption encoded in `base64`.

```python
from infisical import InfisicalClient

client = InfisicalClient()

# some plaintext you want to encrypt
plaintext = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog'

# create a base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key
key = client.create_symmetric_key()

# encrypt
ciphertext, iv, tag = client.encrypt_symmetric(plaintext, key)

# decrypt
cleartext = client.decrypt_symmetric(ciphertext, key, iv, tag)
```

# Installation

You need Python 3.7+.

```console
$ pip install infisical
```

# Configuration

Import the SDK and create a client instance with your [Infisical Token](https://infisical.com/docs/getting-started/dashboard/token).


```py
from infisical import InfisicalClient

client = InfisicalClient(token="your_infisical_token")
```

### Options

| Parameter | Type     | Description |
| --------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `token`   | `string` | An Infisical Token scoped to a project and environment. |
| `site_url` | `string` | Your self-hosted Infisical site URL. Default: `https://app.infisical.com`. |
| `cache_ttl`| `number` | Time-to-live (in seconds) for refreshing cached secrets. Default: `300`.|
| `debug`   | `boolean` | Turns debug mode on or off. Default: `false`.      |

### Caching

The SDK caches every secret and updates it periodically based on the provided `cache_ttl`. For example, if `cache_ttl` of `300` is provided, then a secret will be refetched 5 minutes after the first fetch; if the fetch fails, the cached secret is returned.

# Secrets

## Get Secrets

```py
secrets = client.get_all_secrets(environment="dev", path="/foo/bar/")
```

Retrieve all secrets within a given environment and folder path. The service token used must have access to the given path and environment.

### Parameters

- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be fetched from.

## Get Secret

```py
secret = client.get_secret("API_KEY", environment="dev", path="/")
value = secret.secret_value # get its value
```

By default, `get_secret()` fetches and returns a personal secret. If not found, it returns a shared secret, or tries to retrieve the value from `os.environ`. If a secret is fetched, `get_secret()` caches it to reduce excessive calls and re-fetches periodically based on the `cacheTTL` option (default is 300 seconds) when initializing the client — for more information, see the caching section.

To explicitly retrieve a shared secret:

```py
secret = client.get_secret(secret_name="API_KEY", type="shared", environment="dev", path="/")
value = secret.secret_value # get its value
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to retrieve.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "personal".

## Create Secret

Create a new secret in Infisical

```py
new_api_key = client.create_secret("API_KEY", "FOO", environment="dev", path="/", type="shared")
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to create.
- `secret_value` (string): The value of the secret.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be created.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "shared". A personal secret can only be created if a shared secret with the same name exists.

## Update Secret

Update an existing secret in Infisical

```py
updated_api_key = client.update_secret("API_KEY", "BAR", environment="dev", path="/", type="shared")
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to update.
- `secret_value` (string): The new value of the secret.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be updated.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "shared".

## Delete Secret

Delete a secret in Infisical

```py
deleted_secret = client.delete_secret("API_KEY", environment="dev", path="/", type="shared")
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to delete.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be deleted.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "shared".

# Cryptography

## Create Symmetric Key

Create a base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key to be used for encryption/decryption.

```python
key = client.create_symmetric_key()
```

### Returns

`key` (string): A base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key.

## Encrypt Symmetric

Encrypt plaintext -> ciphertext.

```python
ciphertext, iv, tag = client.encrypt_symmetric(plaintext, key)
```

### Parameters

- `plaintext` (string): The plaintext to encrypt.
- `key` (string): The base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key to use to encrypt the `plaintext`.

### Returns


- `ciphertext` (string): The base64-encoded, encrypted `plaintext`.
- `iv` (string): The base64-encoded, 96-bit initialization vector generated for the encryption.
- `tag` (string): The base64-encoded authentication tag generated during the encryption.

## Decrypt Symmetric

Decrypt ciphertext -> plaintext/cleartext.

```python
cleartext = client.decrypt_symmetric(ciphertext, key, iv, tag)
```

### Parameters

- `ciphertext` (string): The ciphertext to decrypt.
- `key` (string): The base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key to use to decrypt the `ciphertext`.
- `iv` (string): The base64-encoded, 96-bit initiatlization vector generated for the encryption.
- `tag` (string): The base64-encoded authentication tag generated during encryption.

### Returns

`cleartext` (string): The decrypted encryption that is the cleartext/plaintext.

# Contributing

Bug fixes, docs, and library improvements are always welcome. Please refer to our [Contributing Guide](https://infisical.com/docs/contributing/overview) for detailed information on how you can contribute.

[//]: contributor-faces

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<a href="https://github.com/Astropilot"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11898378?v=4" width="50" height="50" alt=""/></a> <a href="https://github.com/dangtony98"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25857006?v=4" width="50" height="50" alt=""/></a> <a href="https://github.com/Nnahoy"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/86289996?v=4" width="50" height="50" alt=""/></a>

## Getting Started

If you want to familiarize yourself with the SDK, you can start by [forking the repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) and [cloning it in your local development environment](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository). 

After cloning the repository, we recommend that you create a virtual environment:

```console
$ python -m venv env
```

Then activate the environment with:

```console
# For linux
$ source ./env/bin/activate

# For Windows PowerShell
$ .\env\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

Make sure that you have the latest version of `pip` to avoid errors on the next step:
```console
$ python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

Then install the project in editable mode and the dependencies with:
```console
$ pip install -e '.[dev,test]'
```

To run existing tests, you need to make a `.env` at the root of this project containing a `INFISICAL_TOKEN` and `SITE_URL`. This will execute the tests against a project and environment scoped to the `INFISICAL_TOKEN` on a running instance of Infisical at the `SITE_URL` (this could be [Infisical Cloud](https://app.infisical.com)).

To run all the tests you can use the following command:

```console
$ pytest tests
```

# License

`infisical-python` is distributed under the terms of the [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html) license.

Commit message:

Finish adding support for include_imports and attach_to_os_environ params for get_all_secrets method

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/Infisical/infisical">
        <img width="300" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Infisical/infisical-node/main/img/logoname-white.svg#gh-dark-mode-only" alt="infisical">
    </a>
</h1>
<p align="center">
  <p align="center">Open-source, end-to-end encrypted tool to manage secrets and configs across your team and infrastructure.</p>
</p>

# Table of Contents

- [Links](#links)
- [Basic Usage](#basic-usage)
- [Secrets](#working-with-secrets)
  - [Get Secrets](#get-secrets)
  - [Get Secret](#get-secret)
  - [Create Secret](#create-secret)
  - [Update Secret](#update-secret)
  - [Delete Secret](#delete-secret)
- [Cryptography](#cryptography)
  - [Create Symmetric Key](#create-symmetric-key)
  - [Encrypt Symmetric](#encrypt-symmetric)
  - [Decrypt Symmetric](#decrypt-symmetric)

# Links

- [Infisical](https://github.com/Infisical/infisical)

# Basic Usage

```py
from flask import Flask
from infisical import InfisicalClient

app = Flask(__name__)

client = InfisicalClient(token="your_infisical_token")

@app.route("/")
def hello_world():
    # access value
    name = client.get_secret("NAME", environment="dev", path="/")
    return f"Hello! My name is: {name.secret_value}"
```

This example demonstrates how to use the Infisical Python SDK with a Flask application. The application retrieves a secret named "NAME" and responds to requests with a greeting that includes the secret value.

It is also possible to use the SDK to encrypt/decrypt text; the implementation uses `aes-256-gcm` with components of the encryption/decryption encoded in `base64`.

```python
from infisical import InfisicalClient

client = InfisicalClient()

# some plaintext you want to encrypt
plaintext = 'The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog'

# create a base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key
key = client.create_symmetric_key()

# encrypt
ciphertext, iv, tag = client.encrypt_symmetric(plaintext, key)

# decrypt
cleartext = client.decrypt_symmetric(ciphertext, key, iv, tag)
```

# Installation

You need Python 3.7+.

```console
$ pip install infisical
```

# Configuration

Import the SDK and create a client instance with your [Infisical Token](https://infisical.com/docs/getting-started/dashboard/token).


```py
from infisical import InfisicalClient

client = InfisicalClient(token="your_infisical_token")
```

### Options

| Parameter | Type     | Description |
| --------- | -------- | ----------- |
| `token`   | `string` | An Infisical Token scoped to a project and environment. |
| `site_url` | `string` | Your self-hosted Infisical site URL. Default: `https://app.infisical.com`. |
| `cache_ttl`| `number` | Time-to-live (in seconds) for refreshing cached secrets. Default: `300`.|
| `debug`   | `boolean` | Turns debug mode on or off. Default: `false`.      |

### Caching

The SDK caches every secret and updates it periodically based on the provided `cache_ttl`. For example, if `cache_ttl` of `300` is provided, then a secret will be refetched 5 minutes after the first fetch; if the fetch fails, the cached secret is returned.

# Secrets

## Get Secrets

```py
secrets = client.get_all_secrets(environment="dev", path="/foo/bar/")
```

Retrieve all secrets within a given environment and folder path. The service token used must have access to the given path and environment.

### Parameters

- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `include_imports` (boolean): Whether or not to include imported secrets from the current path. Read about [secret import](https://infisical.com/docs/documentation/platform/secret-reference#import-entire-folders). If not specified, the default value is `True`.
- `attach_to_os_environ` (boolean): Whether or not to attach fetched secrets to `os.environ`. If not specified, the default value is `False`.

## Get Secret

```py
secret = client.get_secret("API_KEY", environment="dev", path="/")
value = secret.secret_value # get its value
```

By default, `get_secret()` fetches and returns a personal secret. If not found, it returns a shared secret, or tries to retrieve the value from `os.environ`. If a secret is fetched, `get_secret()` caches it to reduce excessive calls and re-fetches periodically based on the `cacheTTL` option (default is 300 seconds) when initializing the client — for more information, see the caching section.

To explicitly retrieve a shared secret:

```py
secret = client.get_secret(secret_name="API_KEY", type="shared", environment="dev", path="/")
value = secret.secret_value # get its value
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to retrieve.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "personal".

## Create Secret

Create a new secret in Infisical

```py
new_api_key = client.create_secret("API_KEY", "FOO", environment="dev", path="/", type="shared")
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to create.
- `secret_value` (string): The value of the secret.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be created.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "shared". A personal secret can only be created if a shared secret with the same name exists.

## Update Secret

Update an existing secret in Infisical

```py
updated_api_key = client.update_secret("API_KEY", "BAR", environment="dev", path="/", type="shared")
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to update.
- `secret_value` (string): The new value of the secret.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be updated.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "shared".

## Delete Secret

Delete a secret in Infisical

```py
deleted_secret = client.delete_secret("API_KEY", environment="dev", path="/", type="shared")
```

### Parameters

- `secret_name` (string): The key of the secret to delete.
- `environment` (string): The slug name (dev, prod, etc) of the environment from where secrets should be fetched from.
- `path` (string): The path from where secrets should be deleted.
- `type` (string, optional): The type of the secret. Valid options are "shared" or "personal". If not specified, the default value is "shared".

# Cryptography

## Create Symmetric Key

Create a base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key to be used for encryption/decryption.

```python
key = client.create_symmetric_key()
```

### Returns

`key` (string): A base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key.

## Encrypt Symmetric

Encrypt plaintext -> ciphertext.

```python
ciphertext, iv, tag = client.encrypt_symmetric(plaintext, key)
```

### Parameters

- `plaintext` (string): The plaintext to encrypt.
- `key` (string): The base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key to use to encrypt the `plaintext`.

### Returns


- `ciphertext` (string): The base64-encoded, encrypted `plaintext`.
- `iv` (string): The base64-encoded, 96-bit initialization vector generated for the encryption.
- `tag` (string): The base64-encoded authentication tag generated during the encryption.

## Decrypt Symmetric

Decrypt ciphertext -> plaintext/cleartext.

```python
cleartext = client.decrypt_symmetric(ciphertext, key, iv, tag)
```

### Parameters

- `ciphertext` (string): The ciphertext to decrypt.
- `key` (string): The base64-encoded, 256-bit symmetric key to use to decrypt the `ciphertext`.
- `iv` (string): The base64-encoded, 96-bit initiatlization vector generated for the encryption.
- `tag` (string): The base64-encoded authentication tag generated during encryption.

### Returns

`cleartext` (string): The decrypted encryption that is the cleartext/plaintext.

# Contributing

Bug fixes, docs, and library improvements are always welcome. Please refer to our [Contributing Guide](https://infisical.com/docs/contributing/overview) for detailed information on how you can contribute.

[//]: contributor-faces

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->

<a href="https://github.com/Astropilot"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/11898378?v=4" width="50" height="50" alt=""/></a> <a href="https://github.com/dangtony98"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/25857006?v=4" width="50" height="50" alt=""/></a> <a href="https://github.com/Nnahoy"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/86289996?v=4" width="50" height="50" alt=""/></a>

## Getting Started

If you want to familiarize yourself with the SDK, you can start by [forking the repository](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) and [cloning it in your local development environment](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository). 

After cloning the repository, we recommend that you create a virtual environment:

```console
$ python -m venv env
```

Then activate the environment with:

```console
# For linux
$ source ./env/bin/activate

# For Windows PowerShell
$ .\env\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

Make sure that you have the latest version of `pip` to avoid errors on the next step:
```console
$ python -m pip install --upgrade pip
```

Then install the project in editable mode and the dependencies with:
```console
$ pip install -e '.[dev,test]'
```

To run existing tests, you need to make a `.env` at the root of this project containing a `INFISICAL_TOKEN` and `SITE_URL`. This will execute the tests against a project and environment scoped to the `INFISICAL_TOKEN` on a running instance of Infisical at the `SITE_URL` (this could be [Infisical Cloud](https://app.infisical.com)).

To run all the tests you can use the following command:

```console
$ pytest tests
```

# License

`infisical-python` is distributed under the terms of the [MIT](https://spdx.org/licenses/MIT.html) license.
